In 2000, Shell started to explore for oil and gas in a new area off the coast of Brazil,
in partnership with Petrobras and the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation of India.
Originally called BC-10 block, the exploration area has now been named “Parque das Conchas” or “Park of Shells”.
It is located in the Campos Basin, more than 100 kilometres off the coast of Espírito Santo state.
Shell and partners discovered four fields in the area: Ostra, Abalone, Argonauta and Nautilus.
The reservoirs are up to 2,500 metres beneath the seabed, and the fields are up to 20 kilometres apart.
The oil in the reservoirs is mostly heavy. API gravity ranges from 16º to 42º.
The Ostra field is the first to produce oil.
All the wells in this field are horizontal and can stretch for 1 kilometre into the reservoir.
Drilling activities have been carried out in parallel to the installation of the subsea equipment
needed for the start of production in Parque das Conchas.
This equipment is connected to the floating production,
storage and offloading platform called “FPSO Espírito Santo”.
Once production starts, the oil and the gas will flow from the wells to installations on the seabed known in the industry as Christmas trees.
From these installations, the oil and the gas flow to what are known as jumpers and plets until they reach the separation manifold.
A piece of equipment called MOBO, connected to the manifold, separates the oil from the gas.
Using this technology in deep water is an industry first.
From this point onwards, the oil and the gas are piped separately to the FPSO Espírito Santo.
The floating platform can process up to 100,000 barrels of oil and 50 million cubic feet of natural gas a day,
and store nearly 1.5 million barrels of oil for shipment to shore by transport tankers.
Parque das Conchas is a project that posed many technical challenges
for example, its location in ultra-deep water and its geologically complex, low-pressure reservoirs.
Challenges that Shell and partners have been able to overcome through ingenuity and the application of new technologies.